About rampedpyrox
=================
``rampedpyrox`` is a Python package for analyzing experimental kinetic data and accompanying chemical/isotope compositional information. ``rampedpyrox`` is especially suited for deconvolving results from ramped-temperature instruments such as Ramped PyrOx, RockEval, pyrolysis gc (pyGC), thermogravimitry (TGA), etc. This package deconvolves time-series kinetic data into rate/activation energy components using a selection of reactive continuum models, including the Distributed Activation Energy Model (DAEM) for non-isothermal data. Additionally, this package calculates the chemical/isotope composition associated with each component, accounting for any kinetic fractionation effects, and uses a bootstrap method for constraining uncertainty.

Package Information
-------------------
:Authors:
  Jordon D. Hemingway (jhemingway@whoi.edu)

:Version:
  0.0.2

:Release:
  14 September 2016

:License:
  GNU GPL v3 (or greater)

:url:
  http://github.com/FluvialSeds/rampedpyrox

Bug Reports
-----------
This software is still in active deveopment. Please report any bugs directly to me.

How to Cite
-----------
When analyzing data with ``rampedpyrox`` to be used in a peer-reviewed
journal, please cite this package as:

* J.D. Hemingway. *rampedpyrox*: open-source tools for thermoanalytical data analysis, 2016-, http://github.com/FluvialSeds/rampedpyrox [online; accessed |date|]

Additionally, please cite the following peer-reviewed manuscript describing the deveopment of the package and Ramped PyrOx data treatment:

* J.D. Hemingway et al. **(in prep)** Ramped-temperature decomposition kinetics of organic matter using an inverse reactive continuum model.

If using Ramped PyrOx data generated by the NOSAMS instrument, the following manuscript contains relevant information regarding blank carbon composition, isotope mass balance, and the magnitude of the kinetic isotope effect:

* J.D. Hemingway et al. **(in prep)** Assessing the blank carbon contribution, isotope mass balance, and kinetic isotope fractionation of the ramped pyrolysis/oxidation instrument at NOSAMS.


**Access to rampedpyrox is currently private until the peer-reviewed manuscripts accompanything this package have been published.** Please `contact me directly <jhemingway@whoi.edu>`_ for access.


Documentation
-------------
The documentation for the latest release, including detailed package references as well as a comprehensive walkthrough for analyzing Ramped PyrOx data, is available at:

	http://rampedpyrox.readthedocs.io

Package features
----------------
``rampedpyrox`` currently contains the following features relevant to non-isothermal kinetic analysis:

* Stores and plots thermogram data

* Performs first-order DAEM inverse model to estimate activation energy distributions, f(Ea)

  * Regularizes ("smoothes") f(Ea) using Tikhonov Regularization

    * Automated or user-defined regularization value

* Deconvolves f(Ea) distribution into individual components

  * Automated or user-defined component number selection

  * Allows for combination of Gaussian peaks into a single component

* Calculates isotope values for each f(Ea) component

  * Can automatically blank-correct inputted values using any known blank carbon composition

  * Determines component radiocarbon (Fm) values

  * Determines component :sup:`13`\ C/:sup:`12`\ C ratios

  * Accounts for the kinetic isotope effect (KIE) during heating

    * Allows for unique KIE compensation for each component

* Calculates and stores model performance metrics and goodness of fit 
  statistics 

* Determines isotope value uncertainty using Monte Carlo resampling

* Allows for forward-modeling of any arbitrary time-temperature history, *e.g.* to determine the decomposition rates and isotope fractionation during geologic organic carbon matruation

Future Additions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Future versions of ``rampedpyrox`` will aim to include:

* Choice of non-Gaussian fitted peak shapes

* Better support for isothermal experimental conditions

* Non-first-order kinetic models


How to Obtain
=============
**Access to rampedpyrox is currently private until the peer-reviewed manuscripts accompanything this package have been published.** Please `contact me directly <jhemingway@whoi.edu>`_ for access.


Source code can be directly downloaded from GitHub:

	http://github.com/FluvialSeds/rampedpyrox

Binaries can be installed through the Python package index::

	$ pip install rampedpyrox

License
=======
This product is licensed under the GNU GPL license, version 3 or greater.

Bug Reports
===========
This software is still in active deveopment. Please report any bugs directly to me at:

	jhemingway@whoi.edu


.. |date| date::